------------------------ Final reviews ------------------------

CHI 2017 Papers and Notes

Reviews of submission #1587: "Inverse Modeling of Complex Interactive
Behavior with ABC"

------------------------ Submission 1587, Review 4 ------------------------

Reviewer:           primary (1AC)
Overall rating:     4  (scale is 0.5..5; 5 is best)

Expertise

   4  (Expert )

Recommendation

   Possibly Accept: I would argue for accepting this paper; 4.0

Award Nomination

   

Your Assessment of this Paper's Contribution to HCI

   The paper investigates the value of apply the techniques of approximate
   Bayesian computations (ABC) to identify parameters in cognitive models.
   Using the menu selection task an example, the authors showed how ABC can
   help to set certain parameters of interests in a cognitive model, and
   help to generate hypotheses based on a space of possible strategies.
   Finally, the technique can also be applied to identify parameters that
   are mostly likely responsible for individual differences in performance.

The Review

   This is an interesting paper with some interesting results that provide
   good insights into better methods for cognitive/user modeling. The
   example models did seem to illustrate most the main ideas behind the
   paper. These suggest that this should be a strong paper to be accepted to
   CHI. However, the main problem is that the paper is poorly written, such
   that the main ideas do not stand out very well. This is perhaps the
   reasons why 3 out of the 4 reviewers do not see the value of the paper.

   The introduction was very poorly written, as it did not motivate the
   reader why this paper was written. It uses a long list of jargons (and
   not used quite correctly) without carefully explaining them, and why they
   are useful to motivate the paper. Some of the claims are even
   questionable (e.g., “HCI models has engaged in forward
   modeling”—without citation it’s not clear what it really means, but
   it does not seem correct). The background section reviewed concepts that
   do not seem to be the most relevant (such as “computational
   rationality” – nothing wrong with this term, but it is not clear the
   goal of the ABC is at this level – again a burden of proof for this
   paper), which not only creates distraction and lowers its readability,
   but also introduce unnecessary burden of proof. Not only until it gets to
   the “Experiments and results” the paper starts to become more
   coherent – but by this time most readers are completely lost.

   It seems to me that the paper can be a lot clearer by rewriting the intro
   and make the story simpler, and removing some of the unnecessary jargons.
   I would ask that the senior authors step in and help with this task. The
   idea (if I understand it correctly) is that in cognitive modeling,
   finding the right parameters is often difficult (please explain how this
   is similar to the task of computing the likelihood function in Bayesian
   models). Thus, ABC is likely a good candidate for more systematically
   sample from the prior distributions of the model parameters, and
   investigate their impact on the generated user data. In traditional
   cognitive modeling, parameter values are often based on past models or
   existing literature, so the question that this paper focuses on is
   whether ABC can be useful for this purpose. The authors should also give
   some background on the class of methods related to ABC, such as empirical
   Bayeisan models. It should also review some general methods on model
   selections, parameter estimation, etc (e.g. Jay Myung’s work).

   The authors can then go on to illustrate how and why the menu selection
   task is a good candidate to demonstrate the usefulness of ABC for this
   task, and explain the results more clearly in the context of how it can
   be better than traditional methods of searching for the best-fitting
   parameter values. Explain the menu selection task earlier, then explain
   the parameter space and model selection. Introduce the idea of a forward
   and inverse model in the process of parameter estimation, contrast it
   with traditional way of doing this. Explain figure 5 & 6 more carefully.
   Motivate the 3 studies that you did before you introduce them, then
   discuss the significance of them. In each study, interpret the results
   and contrast them with the “traditional” ways. At the end, summarize
   these findings and compare them to the original studies to highlight what
   extra benefits you can get from using ABC. Then state review a few other
   existing models of HCI (other than menu selection), and explain how it
   can be applied. Discuss limitations on model selection, strategies
   estimations, etc in the technique, and how it can be mitigated by
   consulting HCI theories and (cognitive models). It is not clear to me how
   it can address “strategic flexibility of the human cognitive system”
   – sounds overly broad. Please be more focus and careful in the claims
   about contribution.

1AC: The Meta-Review

   All reviewers found that the idea of inverse modeling is interesting and
   potentially useful for the CHI community. All reviewers did however point
   out some weaknesses. R1 pointed that the idea of inverse modeling was not
   developed fully, undermining the appreciation of its importance. R2 was
   the most positive and found the paper well written. R2 pointed out that
   computational times could be potentially important but was not discussed.
   R3 expressed the same concern that the relative potential of inverse
   modeling was unclear, especially compared to other existing methods; and
   to what extend the method can be applied in different situations. I hope
   the authors will find these reviews useful for their future submission.

Rebuttal response

   The rebuttal was well written, and have provided a good plan to address
   the weaknesses pointed out by the reviewers. I am quite happy to raise my
   rating on this.


------------------------ Submission 1587, Review 5 ------------------------

Reviewer:           secondary (2AC)
Overall rating:     2.5  (scale is 0.5..5; 5 is best)

Expertise

   2  (Passing Knowledge)

Recommendation

    . . . Between possibly reject and neutral; 2.5

Award Nomination

   

Your Assessment of this Paper's Contribution to HCI

   The opening sentences of the abstract sound promising.

   "Can one make deep inferences about a user based only on observations of
   how she interacts? This paper contributes a methodology for inverse
   modeling in HCI, where the goal is to estimate a cognitive model from
   limited behavioral data."

   But there is very little in the way of discussion of the cognitive model
   that is being provided and rather than predicting things like fixation
   times and task completion times I would like to see predictions of
   internal cognitive variables and validation of those predictions. if we
   don't have that, then I don't see the point of inverse modelling, given
   the stated goals.


The Review

   I generally agree with the issues raised by the other reviewers.

1AC: The Meta-Review


Rebuttal response

   There were two fairly strongly positive reviews (4) on this paper and two
   mildly negative (2.5) reviews including my own. We had a discussion after
   reviewing the rebuttal and one of the positive reviewers reconfirmed his
   support for the paper. Since there is a divergence of option I recommend
   discussion for this paper.


------------------------ Submission 1587, Review 1 ------------------------

Reviewer:           external
Overall rating:     2.5  (scale is 0.5..5; 5 is best)

Expertise

   2  (Passing Knowledge)

Recommendation

    . . . Between possibly reject and neutral; 2.5

Award Nomination

   If accepted, this paper would not be among the top 20% of papers presented at CHI

Your Assessment of this Paper's Contribution to HCI

   The authors contributed by elaborating on inverse modeling and how this
   can help the CHI community. Further the authors are presenting one case
   where inverse modeling was used to improve the models fitness in contrast
   to forward modeling.

The Review

   Over all the paper is well written and structured. The overall core idea
   is of interest for the CHI community. However I would like to help to
   improve the paper with the following remarks. The authors used a method
   already used in other files and promote it to be also useful for the CHI
   community. A general introduction of how inverse modeling is used is well
   presented in the beginning of the paper. The authors the elaborate on how
   this can be used ABC and CR for a menu selection task. Here I would have
   liked to see the authors elaborate more on the task instead of referring
   to outer papers. The description of how the study is run and stats of the
   participants are unusual short for a CHI paper -gander split, age as well
   as how long the study lasted was not laid out. Further what participants
   was paid is normally stated.

   To sum up I would say the paper will help the CHI community to understand
   inverse modeling better however the paper claims more then it presents
   since it was already done in different fields. Especially the paper title
   itself claims to be generic what the paper not is.

   I additionally add this comment which would improve the papers
   style/correctness but had no influence on my review rating:

   # the new CHI template includes DOI's in the references

   # make sure that the references are following one style e.g. conference
   names long or short

   # put page numbers to your submit

   # you canst use a references as a noun. e.g "see [34] for ..." (page 2)
   or "as [7]:" (page 5)

   # whenever you cite a paper put the \cite{}  = [X] (e.g. its missing on
   page 5 "...Chen et al. was..."

Rebuttal response

   I would like to thank the authors for their rebuttal. I read the rebuttal
   and updated my score accordingly.


------------------------ Submission 1587, Review 2 ------------------------

Reviewer:           external
Overall rating:     4  (scale is 0.5..5; 5 is best)

Expertise

   2  (Passing Knowledge)

Recommendation

   Possibly Accept: I would argue for accepting this paper; 4.0

Award Nomination

   If accepted, this paper would not be among the top 20% of papers presented at CHI

Your Assessment of this Paper's Contribution to HCI

   The paper studies the use of approximate Bayesian computation models to
   capture interactive use behavior with menu items. The main comparison of
   the paper is the study in [13], that exploits the more common Q-Learning
   approach for the same task. Extensions of [13] are present and detailed
   experiments are performed. Results show improvements in using ABC.

The Review

   Initially, I congratulate the authors in presenting their ideas clearly.
   The paper is very easy to read and results are promising. Being
   unfamiliar with ABC, it was interesting to learn about this inference
   technique.

   Although promising, throughout the paper I missed a discussion regarding
   computation times. How does ABC compare with Q-learning in this case.
   More importantly, it would be nice to have the baseline [13] in the
   prediction sections (Study 2 and 3). Comparisons on these sections is
   mostly done with variants of the authors idea. Adding such comparisons as
   well as computation time would help understanding the practical gains of
   the authors ideas.

   Structure wise, I would suggested moving the appendixes after the
   references.

   Overall, this was a nice paper to read and I believe it can be a good
   contribution to the conference. Nevertheless, the core experiments that
   argue in favor of this novel technique need to the revised. Currently,
   experiments are mostly based on variations of the same model, not on
   comparisons with previous efforts.

Rebuttal response

   I still think this paper could be a nice contribution to CHI, it explores
   a new method with nice results. Based on the rebuttal, I'll welcome the
   updated text and will increase my score. I still believe that further
   comparisons with other methods, even if just explaining on the text why
   they do not make sense, could help the uninformed reader.


------------------------ Submission 1587, Review 3 ------------------------

Reviewer:           external
Overall rating:     3  (scale is 0.5..5; 5 is best)

Expertise

   2  (Passing Knowledge)

Recommendation

   Neutral: I am unable to argue for accepting or rejecting this paper; 3.0

Award Nomination

   

Your Assessment of this Paper's Contribution to HCI

   This paper describes a case study of applying inverse modelling using
   approximate Bayesian computation (ABC) to a set of existing, previously
   analyzed dataset of menu interaction (e.g., task completion times).
   According to the authors, this combination of approach has not been
   applied in the field of HCI, but has been shown useful in fields
   including cognitive science.

   In their case study, the authors attempted to compare their inverse
   modelling results to a previous research applying forward models to the
   same set of data, and provided variants of their inverse models by
   introducing a number of hypotheses (treated as prior knowledge)
   translated into new parameters.

The Review

   The ability to infer parameters or causal factors from a set of
   observations is particularly useful in fields where these parameters
   cannot be observed. For HCI, it would also be useful to estimate
   cognitive models based on purely behavioral data. In this paper, the
   authors provided a case study in which they attempted to estimate
   parameters modelling times spent on menu interactions using approximate
   Bayesian computation. However, while the case study shows that the method
   can be done in this context, it is unclear to me that inverse modelling
   using ABC has significant advantages compared to forward modelling or
   other methods of inverse modelling.

   For comparison with forward models, the authors compared their results
   with an earlier work (Chen et al., cited as [13] in the paper), which
   apparently set a number of parameters (e.g., meaningful fixations) based
   on literature. The authors' analysis, for simplicity's sake, applied
   their method to infer one parameter, fixation time, from observations of
   task completion times. The current results appear promising based on
   closer values of simulated task completion times to observed task
   completion times. However, in the other aspect for finding behavioural
   patterns, there were no conclusive results that appear to match observed
   data or to provide plausible behavioural strategies. Given the comparison
   the authors tried to raise with another work, more details should be
   provided regarding how the forward modelling was done in the other work
   (what parameters are being estimated, based on what reasoning, etc.)

   To show case that the inverse modelling using ABC may be promising in
   providing further insights about human computer interactions, the authors
   proposed to use it as a way for "hypothesis testing", i.e., given their
   observation about the data/scenario, they included new parameters (e.g.,
   latency associated with target selection, probability associated with
   recognising a previously seen item) to be inferred from data. Results of
   incrementally adding inferred parameters to the model were used to
   suggest success in testing such hypotheses given improved predictions.
   This seems rather doubtful, as increasing the number of parameters,
   especially when they are already estimated from the given dataset, would
   logically improve predictions, but would not necessarily suggest that it
   was a valid parameter to include. There were no formal
   comparison/assessment of model results beyond predictive errors. I am
   uncertain whether this is a limitation for the method applied, or missing
   information that could be expanded on.

   Given that these "hypotheses" came from the authors'interpretation by
   looking at the previously simulated data and the actual data, I find that
   hypotheses tested and supported in formal models would provide more
   concrete evidence (hypothesis testing required controls of many factors,
   for example). Also, such hypotheses were treated as the "prior" of ABC.
   Can you make assumptions of general knowledge and then interpret their
   estimates as validation of such knowledge being correctly assumed?    

   The validity of using an individual's data to estimate a model of an
   individual and then comparing this model's predictive errors with that of
   the population model based on population data is unclear to me. Unless
   the statistical model has accounted for variability of individuals, a
   model based on an individual would logically do a better job predicting
   an individual's behaviour compared to using a population model, no?

   Overall, I find the paper unnecessarily lengthy, especially in the first
   part for introducing inverse models/ABCs as a promising method in HCI.
   Yet it was not clear to me what are the limitations or potential weakness
   for such methods compared to the more traditional ones. While this may be
   a useful method for HCI data, it would be important for other researchers
   to understand the necessary conditions that this method may be useful
   for.

   On the other hand, there could be more details provided in justifying
   some of the study's own choices (e.g., what does it mean that a subject
   is the "most average" user compared to others?  That their data represent
   the median, or average, or these values?).

Rebuttal response

   I thank the authors for their rebuttal, I have adjusted the score to 3
   based on the authors' proposed changes, but many of my concerns remain.

