------------------------ Submission 143, Review 1 ------------------------

Title: Dealing with Concept Drift in Exploratory Search: An Interactive Bayesian Approach

Reviewer:           External Reviewer

Overall Rating

   2  (Probably reject: I would argue for rejecting this paper.)

Expertise

   3  (Knowledgeable)

The Review

   The paper proposes a probabilistic method for data exploration Even if
   the paper technically sounds, I think this work is not applicable for
   poster session as the content is already too developped for poster, and
   alredy balacing toward a full or short paper. I recommend to develop the
   paper with an additional related work and results, discussion section and
   to resubmit as full paper somewhere else.

Please rate the visual appearance of the poster.

   Marginal: visual design would benefit from some additional rework


------------------------ Submission 143, Review 2 ------------------------

Title: Dealing with Concept Drift in Exploratory Search: An Interactive Bayesian Approach

Reviewer:           External Reviewer

Overall Rating

   4  (Probably accept: I would argue for accepting this paper.)

Expertise

   3  (Knowledgeable)

The Review

   This paper introduces a user interface that makes use of an interactive
   Bayesian approach to deal with concept drift in exploratory search. The
   need for such an interface is motivated by the fact that users change
   their mind as they perform more search queries, and hence allows users to
   revise the relevance feedback they gave to past keywords. This system is
   compared to a baseline system that does not allow to revise relevance
   feedback. The study finds that the use of the interactive interface to
   deal with concept drift does help improve the performance of the search.

   The paper is very relevant to IUI's scope, and makes a good contribution
   to be presented as a poster at the conference.

   The main limitation is the evaluation, which is at the moment a bit
   preliminary, and would benefit from extending in the future. The user
   study has been conducted with only 4 students, which is somewhat
   insufficient so as to conclude that the user interface is really useful.
   I am left wondering if an average user would be keen on using these extra
   features during exploratory search, or they would instead find it either
   difficult or cumbersome to use. A broader user study with more
   participants would help here.

   The study finds that users perform more interactions with the improved
   interface, leading to better results. It would also be useful to include
   figures of time spent with each interface, instead of only number of
   interactions, so that the extent to which spending that extra time can be
   assessed.

   Regarding the user interface, I find that the fact that the feedback is
   represented with a bar of both different length and color might be a bit
   redundant. I understand that the length and the color are providing the
   same information after all. Would it be perhaps easier for the user to
   use a single clue to represent different feedback values?

   I understand that it is due to the limitation of length of the paper, but
   I believe that it would be very useful to include a screenshot of the
   whole interface in the paper, as it has been included in the poster. The
   reader does not otherwise see the entire interface in the paper.

   Minor comment: In the introduction, you might want to revise the sentence
   "in this system makes the assumption that ... with the assumption that
   ..." to avoid redundancy and improve clarity.

Please rate the visual appearance of the poster.

   Satisfactory: visual design acceptable for presentation at conference


------------------------ Submission 143, Review 3 ------------------------

Title: Dealing with Concept Drift in Exploratory Search: An Interactive Bayesian Approach

Reviewer:           External Reviewer

Overall Rating

   3  (Borderline: Overall I would not argue for accepting this paper.)

Expertise

   2  (Passing Knowledge)

The Review

   This paper presents an interactive Bayesian approach that reflect user's
   concept drift to suggest better search query for precise search result.

   I have no expertise in modeling, but the paper is anyhow not much easy to
   follow the flow. The user interface demonstrated through the supporting
   file looked accessible and intuitive to utilize, but I still have doubt
   if suggested search terms from agents shown in the target circles really
   helped users to search precise paper lists or not. I was curious the
   paper list shown by new queries is subset of first result or newly found
   list. In my personal experience, sometimes papers found by revised search
   terms are not in the overlapped category where I firstly searched, or a
   newly adjusted search term brings new papers from the scratch. I
   personally wonder if these cases were properly reflected.

   Also, in the demo video, circular interface seemed to be a main feature
   of the system, than timeline interface authors introduced in the paper.
   And I was not well convinced how timeline matters in this user interface.
   If users learn while they searching, and this helps them to find better
   papers, do users often times go back to the some point? Does going back
   to some moment yield better search results?

   The number of users who participated in study to validate the system
   seems not to be enough, also their qualitative responses can be possibly
   biased because of their demographics. Considering the session the paper
   submitted to, WiP poster, it can be improved for the future, but I do not
   assert strong acceptance or rejection of this paper at this moment. I
   will rely on other reviewers' scores.

   In minor, the template required for WiP poster is extended abstract
   format, not this proceedings template with two columns. If the paper is
   accepted, authors should reduce much amount of writing to squeeze
   contents into.

Please rate the visual appearance of the poster.

   Marginal: visual design would benefit from some additional rework 
